Design a plotting application.
Project:  My Plotter
Project goals:
OOP in Python
Design system with class diagram
Incremental iterative development process
Business goals:
You are asked to develop a plotting application for design teams to do product design and modeling work.
Requirements of Standard Edition:
An end-user may input a name of shape from their keyboard.
The application then draws a shape that the user desires.
The basic parameter(s) of a shape should print on the console, which determines possible measurements of a shape.
i.e. perimeter, area, surface area, volume, etc.
The perimeter of a 2D shape should print on the console.
The area of a 2D shape should print on the console.
The volume of a 3D shape should print on the console.
The surface area of a 3D shape should print on the console.
The starter edition supports basic 2D shapes including:
Rectangle
Square
Circle
Triangle
The starter edition also supports 3D shapes including:
Sphere
Cube
Requirements of Pro Edition:
Your development team plans to develop a professional edition at the same time to meet possible requirements and changes in near feature.
The professional edition supports additional 2D shapes such as:
Parallelogram
Oval
Rhombus
Right Triangle
The professional edition also supports to draw 3D shapes including:
Pyramid
Cylinder
The professional edition provides all features of the starter edition.
The professional edition provides additional features.
It allows users to fill with a specified color.
i.e. Red, Blue, Yellow, Green, White, Black, etc.
Task
Please design this product line to meet all the needs of the market.
Hints:
A class diagram is required.
A diagram of system structure is required.
Coding in multi-module style.
The parameters needed to calculate measurements of shapes should be determined.
Reference
https://7esl.com/shapes-vocabulary/
https://www.calculator.net/volume-calculator.html
https://www.calculator.net/area-calculator.html
https://www.calculator.net/surface-area-calculator.html
https://www.gigacalculator.com/calculators/perimeter-calculator.php
